THE MARSH KING’S DAUGHTER

The storks tell their young ones ever so many fairy tales, all of them
from the fen and the moss. Generally the tales are suited to the
youngsters’ age and understanding. The baby birds are pleased if they
are told just ‘kribly, krably, plurry-murry!’ which they think
wonderful; but the older ones will have something with more sense in it,
or, at the least, a tale about themselves. Of the two oldest and longest
tales which have been told among the storks, one we all know--that about
Moses, who was placed by his mother in an ark on the waters of the Nile,
was found by the king’s daughter, and then was taught all learning, and
became a great man, and no one knows where he was buried. Everybody has
heard that tale.

But the other story is not known at all even now; perhaps because it is
really a chimney-corner tale. It has been handed down by mother-stork to
mother-stork for hundreds of years, and each in turn has told it better,
till now we are telling it best of all.

The first pair of storks who knew it had their summer quarters on a
Viking’s log-house by the moor in Wendsyssel, which is in the county of
Hjörring, near Skagen in Jutland, if we want to be accurate. To this day
there is still an enormous great moss there. You can read all about it
in your geography book. The moss lies where was once the bottom of the
sea, before the great upheaval of the land; and now it stretches for
miles, surrounded on all sides by watery meadows and quivering bog, with
turf-moss cloudberries and stunted trees growing. A fog hangs over it
almost continually, and till about seventy years ago wolves were still
found there. It may certainly be called a wild moor, and you can imagine
what lack of paths and what abundance of swamp and sea was there
thousands of years ago. In that waste man saw ages back just what he
sees to-day. The reeds were just as high, with the same kind of long
leaves and purplish-brown, feathery flowers as they have now; the
birches stood with white bark and fine, loose-hung leaves just as they
now stand; and for the living creatures that came there, why, the fly
wore its gauze suit of just the same cut as now, and the colour of the
stork’s dress was white and black, with red stockings. On the other
hand, the men of that time wore different clothes from those we wear.
But whoever it was, poor peasant or free hunter, that trod on the
quagmire, it happened thousands of years ago just as it does to-day--in
he went and down he sank, down to the Marsh King, as they called him,
who reigned beneath in the great Moss Kingdom. He was called also the
Mire King, but we will call him by the stork’s name for him--Marsh King.
People know very little about how he governed, but perhaps that is just
as well.

Near to the moss, and right in the Liim Fjord, stood the Viking’s
log-house, with paved cellar and tower two storeys high. On the roof the
storks had built their nest. Mother-stork sat on her eggs, and was
positive they would turn out well.

One evening father-stork had been out for a long time, and when he came
home he seemed excited and flurried.
