 1 ﻿THE MARSH KING’S DAUGHTER
 2 
 3 The storks tell their young ones ever so many fairy tales, all of them
 4 from the fen and the moss. Generally the tales are suited to the
 5 youngsters’ age and understanding. The baby birds are pleased if they
 6 are told just ‘kribly, krably, plurry-murry!’ which they think
 7 wonderful; but the older ones will have something with more sense in it,
 8 or, at the least, a tale about themselves. Of the two oldest and longest
 9 tales which have been told among the storks, one we all know--that about
10 Moses, who was placed by his mother in an ark on the waters of the Nile,
11 was found by the king’s daughter, and then was taught all learning, and
12 became a great man, and no one knows where he was buried. Everybody has
13 heard that tale.
14 
15 But the other story is not known at all even now; perhaps because it is
16 really a chimney-corner tale. It has been handed down by mother-stork to
17 mother-stork for hundreds of years, and each in turn has told it better,
18 till now we are telling it best of all.
19 
20 The first pair of storks who knew it had their summer quarters on a
21 Viking’s log-house by the moor in Wendsyssel, which is in the county of
22 Hjörring, near Skagen in Jutland, if we want to be accurate. To this day
23 there is still an enormous great moss there. You can read all about it
24 in your geography book. The moss lies where was once the bottom of the
25 sea, before the great upheaval of the land; and now it stretches for
26 miles, surrounded on all sides by watery meadows and quivering bog, with
27 turf-moss cloudberries and stunted trees growing. A fog hangs over it
28 almost continually, and till about seventy years ago wolves were still
29 found there. It may certainly be called a wild moor, and you can imagine
30 what lack of paths and what abundance of swamp and sea was there
31 thousands of years ago. In that waste man saw ages back just what he
32 sees to-day. The reeds were just as high, with the same kind of long
33 leaves and purplish-brown, feathery flowers as they have now; the
34 birches stood with white bark and fine, loose-hung leaves just as they
35 now stand; and for the living creatures that came there, why, the fly
36 wore its gauze suit of just the same cut as now, and the colour of the
37 stork’s dress was white and black, with red stockings. On the other
38 hand, the men of that time wore different clothes from those we wear.
39 But whoever it was, poor peasant or free hunter, that trod on the
40 quagmire, it happened thousands of years ago just as it does to-day--in
41 he went and down he sank, down to the Marsh King, as they called him,
42 who reigned beneath in the great Moss Kingdom. He was called also the
43 Mire King, but we will call him by the stork’s name for him--Marsh King.
44 People know very little about how he governed, but perhaps that is just
45 as well.
46 
47 Near to the moss, and right in the Liim Fjord, stood the Viking’s
48 log-house, with paved cellar and tower two storeys high. On the roof the
49 storks had built their nest. Mother-stork sat on her eggs, and was
50 positive they would turn out well.
51 
52 One evening father-stork had been out for a long time, and when he came
53 home he seemed excited and flurried.
